CODE Defined Benefit Pension Features 
1A Benefits are primarily pay related. 
1B Benefits are primarily flat dollar (includes dollars per year of service). 
1C Cash balance or similar plan – Plan has a “cash balance” formula. For this purpose, a “cash balance” formula is a benefit formula in a defined benefit plan by whatever name (for example, personal account plan, pension equity plan, life cycle plan, cash account plan, etc.) that rather than, or in addition to, expressing the accrued benefit as a life annuity commencing at normal retirement age, defines benefits for each employee in terms more common to a defined contribution plan such as a single sum distribution amount (for example, 10% of final average pay times years of service, or the amount of the employee’s hypothetical account balance). 
1D Floor-offset plan – to offset for retirement benefits provided by an employer-sponsored defined contribution plan. 
1E Code section 401(h) arrangement – Plan contains separate accounts under Code section 401(h) to provide employee health benefits. 
1F Code section 414(k) arrangement – Benefits are based partly on the balance of the separate account of the participant (also include appropriate defined contribution pension feature codes). 
1H Plan covered by PBGC that was terminated and closed out for PBGC purposes – Before the end of the plan year (or a prior plan year), (1) the plan terminated in a standard (or distress) termination and completed the distribution of plan assets in satisfaction of all benefit liabilities (or all ERISA Title IV benefits for distress termination); or (2) a trustee was appointed for a terminated plan pursuant to ERISA section 4042. 
1I Frozen plan – As of the last day of the plan year, the plan provides that no participant will get any new benefit accrual (whether because of service or compensation).

CODE Defined Contribution Pension Features 
2A Use this code if employer contributions in the return year were based on one of the following allocation types: Age/service weighted or new comparability or similar plan – Age/service weighted plan: Allocations are based on age, service, or age and service. New comparability or similar plan: Allocations are based on participant classifications and a classification(s) consists entirely or predominantly of highly compensated employees; or the plan provides an additional allocation rate on compensation above a specified threshold, and the threshold or additional rate exceeds the maximum threshold or rate allowed under the permitted disparity rules of Code section 401(l). 
2B Target benefit plan. 
2C Money purchase (other than target benefit) plan. 
2D Offset plan – Plan benefits are subject to offset for retirement benefits provided in another plan or arrangement of the employer. 
2E Profit-sharing plan. 
2F ERISA section 404(c) plan – This plan, or any part of it, is intended to meet the conditions of 29 CFR 2550.404c1. 
2G Total participant-directed account plan – Participants have the opportunity to direct the investment of all the assets allocated to their individual accounts, regardless of whether 29 CFR 2550.404c-1 is intended to be met. 
2H Partial participant-directed account plan – Participants have the opportunity to direct the investment of a portion of the assets allocated to their individual accounts, regardless of whether 29 CFR 2550.404c-1 is intended to be met. 
2I Stock bonus.
2J Code section 401(k) feature – A cash or deferred arrangement described in Code section 401(k) that is part of a qualified defined contribution plan that provides for an election by employees to defer part of their compensation or receive these amounts in cash. 
2K Code section 401(m) arrangement – Employee contributions are allocated to separate accounts under the plan or employer contributions are based, in whole or in part, on employee deferrals or contributions to the plan. Not applicable if plan is a Code section 401(k) plan with only QNECs and/or QMACs. Also not applicable if plan is a Code section 403(b)(1), 403(b)(7), or 408 arrangement/accounts annuities. 
2L An annuity contract purchased by Code section 501(c)(3) organization or public school as described in Code section 403(b)(1) arrangement.”
2M Custodial accounts for regulated investment company stock as described in Code section 403(b)(7).
2N Code section 408 accounts and annuities – See Limited Pension Plan Reporting instructions for pension plan utilizing Code section 408 individual retirement accounts or annuities as the funding vehicle for providing benefits.
2O ESOP other than a leveraged ESOP.
2P Leveraged ESOP – An ESOP that acquires employer securities with borrowed money or other debt-financing techniques.
2Q The employer maintaining this ESOP is an S corporation.
2R Participant-directed brokerage accounts provided as an investment option under the plan. 
2S 401(k) plan or 403(b) plan that provides for automatic enrollment in plan that has elective contributions deducted from payroll.
2T Total or partial participant-directed account plan – plan uses default investment account for participants who fail to direct assets in their account. 
2U Multiple-employer pension plan sponsored by a bona fide group or association of employers that is an Association Retirement Plan that meets all the conditions under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(b).
2V Multiple-employer pension plan that is a Professional Employer Organization Plan (PEO Plan) that meets all the conditions under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(c).
2W Multiple-employer pension plan that is a pooled employer plan that meets the definition under ERISA section 3(43). Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500
2X Multiple-employer defined contribution pension plan that does not fall under characteristics codes 2U, 2V or 2W.

CODE Other Pension Benefit Features 
3B Use this code if the plan covered self-employed individuals in the return year.
3C Plan not intended to be qualified - A plan not intended to be qualified under Code sections 401, 403, or 408. 
3D Pre-approved pension plan - A pre-approved plan under sections 401, 403(a), and 4975(e)(7) of the Code that is subject to a favorable opinion letter from the IRS.
3F Plan sponsor(s) received services of leased employees, as defined in Code section 414(n), during the plan year. 
3H Plan sponsor(s) is (are) a member(s) of a controlled group under Code section 414(b) or (c) or of an affiliated service group under section 414(m). 
3I Plan requiring that all or part of employer contributions be invested and held, at least for a limited period, in employer securities.
3J U.S.-based plan that covers residents of Puerto Rico and is qualified under both Code section 401 and section 1165 of the Internal Revenue Code of Puerto Rico. 

CODE Welfare Benefit Features 
4A Health (other than vision or dental). 
4B Life insurance. 
4C Supplemental unemployment. 
4D Dental. 
4E Vision. 
4F Temporary disability (accident and sickness). 
4G Prepaid legal. 
4H Long-term disability. 
4I Severance pay. 
4J Apprenticeship and training. 
4K Scholarship (funded). 
4L Death benefits (include travel accident but not life insurance). 
4P Taft-Hartley Financial Assistance for Employee Housing Expenses. 
4Q Other. 
4R Unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/fully insured welfare plan that will not file an annual report for next plan year pursuant to 29 CFR 2520.104-20. 
4S Unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/fully insured welfare plan that stopped filing annual reports in an earlier plan year pursuant to 29 CFR 2520.104-20. 
4T 10 or more employer plan under Code section 419A(f)(6). 
4U Collectively-bargained welfare benefit arrangement under Code section 419A(f)(5).